Breaking news to CNN.
The Israeli military has just announced
a hostage has been rescued from Gaza.
Jeremy Diamond is following this story.
Jeremy, what do we know?
yeah.
We've just learned that,
a hostage who is being held by Hamas
since October 7th has been rescued
in an Israeli military operation.
Israeli military just releasing
the details that killed Farhan al-Saadi,
a 52 year old, Bedouin man
from Israel was,
rescued in an operation,
a joint operation by the Israeli military
and the Israeli, intelligence
service, the Shin Bet.
they say that he was rescued by Shalit
at 13.
That's, the Israeli equivalent
of the Navy Seals, as well as by Air
Harlem and, Shin Bet forces,
under the command of the 162nd Division.
This happened in the southern Gaza Strip.
and that is the extent of the, details
that we have for now.
He's only one of a handful of,
Israeli, hostages
who have actually been rescued in Israeli
military operations in Gaza.
I believe that there have been at least
six others so far who have been rescued
by the Israeli military.
Most of the hostages, of course,
who have actually gotten out of Gaza,
got out during that November week
long truce.
but no doubt that this is incredible
news for his family,
this 52 year old man, Kaid
Farhan al-Khatib.
He was actually working
as a security guard near
the Gaza border
on the morning of October 7th.
And that is when he was taken
captive by Hamas
and whisked away into the Gaza Strip.
He has been there now, for the last,
ten and a half months
as a captive of Hamas.
So obviously some very rare
and very good news, today, for him
and his family, ten and a half months
in captivity, just incredible.
And of course, we'll, you know,
are awaiting the details of this operation
as to how they were able to pinpoint
where he was, in terms of, you know, the,
the ongoing the, the hostage, release
and ceasefire talks that remain ongoing.
Do you see this
rescue operation impacting the talks
in any way?
Jeremy?
It is really difficult to know the extent
to which
this will actually impact the talks.
I mean, anytime
something happens on the ground,
whether it is a strike in Gaza,
a rescue operation or anything else,
it can have some kind of an impact
if not on the talks themselves,
and certainly
on the psychology of the populations
that are being represented by the
different parties at the negotiated table.
and this will be a boost,
of course, for Israeli morale to see
that another hostage has indeed
been rescued from captivity.
But I think that all of the families
of the hostages are pretty clear eyed
at this point, that they are not counting
on additional Israeli rescue operations
to get all of their loved ones
out of Gaza.
They know and certainly
a big portion of the Israeli government
knows, that it is ultimately a deal
with Hamas that will lead to the release
of the remaining hostages
and the question is, can that happen
quickly enough for,
more of them to come home alive
rather than dead, as we have seen a number
of the bodies of Israeli hostages,
some of whom, died only in recent months,
being brought back to Israel,
in body bags.
Sadly, rather than coming home alive,
we know that those negotiations
are still ongoing
at a technical level in Cairo right now.
the United States has said
that there has been significant progress
over the weekend towards a deal.
but it is still very difficult to know
whether or not these talks
will actually lead to an agreement
that would see dozens more hostages
released. Yeah.
The last rescue that we saw,
happened, in June
where we for captives were released.
And that came, amid a major Israeli
air and ground
offensive where dozens of people,
were killed as a result.
Are we getting any more information
about this hostage rescue operation?
Jeremy?
As of now, no.
I mean, we are looking.
One of the things that I will be looking
for as well is to see,
you know, how heavy was this Israeli
military operation in terms of,
collateral damage
and casualties on the ground?
We have seen in the past
that when the Israeli military
does carry out these rescue operations,
they tend to, do quite a bit of damage
on the ground,
bombing the area in order to try and send
their special forces in safely
to rescue these hostages.
But as we saw in the previous instance,
of course, of those four hostages
who were rescued, back in June, dozens
of Palestinians on the ground were killed,
including a number of civilians
who were part of that death.
All right.
Jeremy Diamond,
I know this is a developing story, right?
We have, Gideon
Levy with us now from Haaretz.
to talk more about this.
Jeremy, thank you so much,
for getting up quickly for that report.
first off, Gideon,
please give me your reaction
to this latest,
hostage rescue operation.
What do you know?
First of all, it's a it's a very it's
happy news.
I mean, on a humanitarian basis,
everyone is something.
And in this case, it's
a Bedouin of Israel.
I think he got a granddaughter,
by the time that he was
in, in captivity and, and,
you know, each hostages a whole world.
But it shouldn't change our minds.
The hostages will not be released
by such operations
here and there, here at both the.
They're living hostage.
But the hostages will be released
only in a deal which will end this war.
There are no shortcuts.
and I'll ask you the question
that I asked Jeremy about, you know,
how do you see
how do you see these rescue operations?
And the last one in June,
we saw, quite a high number of casualties
on the Palestinian side.
How do you see these hostage
rescue operations potentially impacting,
the ongoing talks where we know
there are huge sticking points.
First of all, the
ongoing talks, leading to nowhere.
So it's not much to put in risk.
But what is in risk, obviously, are lives
of innocent Palestinians
in those operations.
I don't know about this one.
The last operation in which
there were only bodies brought to Israel,
dozens of Palestinians
sprayed in their lives.
And this is obviously unacceptable,
especially when it is
about both these dead bodies
and living hostages.
In this case, I don't know the details yet
because they are not very clear,
but I hope that not too many Palestinians
in their lives, they don't deserve.
if you are just joining
us, we're following breaking news.
we have just learned that a hostage
who was abducted by Hamas on October
7th has been rescued, not released,
rescued by the Israeli military.
This happened today.
his name is Kade.
Farhan. Al Shorty.
he is 52 years old, as we understand it.
And he was rescued by the,
401st Brigade and the Israeli forces.
And moments ago, we heard from a spokesman
from the Israeli government.
Listen.
He's in a stable
medical condition and is being transferred
for medical checks right now
at a Israeli hospital.
His overjoyed family,
has been updated with the details,
and the IDF is accompanying them
at this crucial moment.
Israeli security forces will continue
to operate with all means necessary.
All means necessary to bring home
all of our hostages.
This is truly uplifting news.
Everyone that cares about the lives
of our people here in Israel.
And I think right
thinking people around the world,
it's incredible.
But here he is in stable condition.
This is the 52 year old man
who was rescued.
Jim Sciutto is in Tel Aviv,
with the latest.
Hi there Jim. So what do we know?
I know it's early days,
and we're just getting the information
and a lot of questions about,
the rescue operation itself.
But what do we know about the
man who is now a free man?
Yeah.
Listen, some rare good news
in this conflict, given that we're close
to 11 months out since the attacks
on October 7th and so many families
in Israel suffering,
waiting for news of their loved ones.
Here's what we know about this
rescued hostage, 52 year
old kid, Farhan al-Khatib.
He was a Bedouin.
and according to the Hostages
Family forum, he was October,
abducted on October 7th
from a security job at Kibbutz Mugen.
down in the south,
of course, close to Gaza.
you heard the Israeli government spokesman
there saying that his family has now
been given the good news
that he is in stable medical condition.
and, they are continuing to do
medical checks on him at a hospital.
it is, as I say, rare news,
to speak of a live rescue of a hostage.
All these months later.
The last one was on June 8th, when four
hostages were rescued from central Gaza.
This operation, taking place
in southern Gaza, involving both
both regular military units
and Israeli special forces.
They have not released further details
as to exactly
how they managed to gain his safety.
but again,
you have to go back to June 8th.
So a number of months
to a successful rescue operation.
Of course, just last week, six hostages,
bodies were recovered from from Gaza.
of course, not the good news
that these hostage families want to hear.
That leaves the total at 108, 108
that are still remaining there.
And Israeli government officials
have acknowledged that many of those 108,
though they have not specified
a number, are no longer alive.
the Hostage Form
Forum has released a statement
saying that this is nothing
short of miracle.
they go on to say that
military operations alone
cannot be expected to gain the freedom
of all these hostages.
Of course, that speaks to the tension
ongoing here between hostage families
and the government, because hostage
families have been quite impatient for
a deal.
A cease fire and hostage
release deal to gain the release of,
the other remaining hostages,
or at least a large number
of the other remaining hostages.
But at least today, for one
family, there is good news.